README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# vivarcity

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of vivarcity is to provide a simple R interface to the
[Vivacity Labs API](https://docs.vivacitylabs.com/).

## Installation

You can install the development version of vivarcity from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("Robinlovelace/vivarcity")
```

## Setup

You need a Vivacity API key to use this package. Save it in your
`.Renviron` file:

    VIVACITY_API_KEY=your_api_key_here

## Example

This example demonstrates how to retrieve metadata, counts, and
visualize traffic data.

Load the package:

``` r
library(vivarcity)
```

Or for developing, clone the repo with

``` sh
gh repo clone Robinlovelace/vivarcity
```

And then open the folder in RStudio/VSCode/your favourite IDE and run:

``` r
devtools::load_all()
#> ℹ Loading vivarcity
```

``` r
library(dplyr)
library(ggplot2)

# Get countline metadata (returns sf object)
metadata_sf <- get_countline_metadata()
names(metadata_sf)
#> [1] "id"                                 "name"                              
#> [3] "description"                        "direction"                         
#> [5] "is_dwell_times_filtering_countline" "is_anpr"                           
#> [7] "is_speed"                           "modified_at"                       
#> [9] "geometry"
```

``` r
# Sample 3 random countlines
set.seed(2025)
sampled_ids <- metadata_sf |>
  slice_sample(n = 3) |>
  pull(id)

# Get counts for a week in 2024
from_time <- as.POSIXct("2024-01-01", tz = "UTC")
to_time <- as.POSIXct("2024-01-08", tz = "UTC")

counts_df <- get_countline_counts(sampled_ids, from = from_time, to = to_time)
```

Note: this will fail if the sensors don’t have speed recording enabled:

``` r
# Get speeds (function accepts vector of IDs)
speeds_df <- get_countline_speed(sampled_ids, from = from_time, to = to_time)
```

We can visualise the counts:

``` r
# Summary statistics
summary_stats <- counts_df |>
  group_by(id) |>
  summarise(
    observations = n(),
    total_count = sum(count, na.rm = TRUE)
  )

# Plot traffic counts over time
ggplot(counts_df, aes(x = from, y = count, color = id)) +
  geom_line() +
  labs(
    title = "Traffic Counts (Jan 2024)",
    x = "Time",
    y = "Total Vehicles",
    color = "Sensor"
  ) +
  theme_minimal() +
  theme(legend.position = "bottom")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-summary-1.png" width="100%" />

Commit message:

Rename package from vivarcity to vivrcity, add A/B/C sensor labels

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# vivrcity

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of vivrcity is to provide a simple R interface to the [Vivacity
Labs API](https://docs.vivacitylabs.com/).

## Installation

You can install the development version of vivrcity from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("Robinlovelace/vivrcity")
```

## Setup

You need a Vivacity API key to use this package. Save it in your
`.Renviron` file:

    VIVACITY_API_KEY=your_api_key_here

## Example

This example demonstrates how to retrieve metadata, counts, and
visualize traffic data.

Load the package:

``` r
library(vivrcity)
```

Or for developing, clone the repo with

``` sh
gh repo clone Robinlovelace/vivrcity
```

And then open the folder in RStudio/VSCode/your favourite IDE and run:

``` r
devtools::load_all()
#> ℹ Loading vivrcity
```

``` r
library(dplyr)
library(ggplot2)

# Get countline metadata (returns sf object)
metadata_sf <- get_countline_metadata()
names(metadata_sf)
#> [1] "id"                                 "name"                              
#> [3] "description"                        "direction"                         
#> [5] "is_dwell_times_filtering_countline" "is_anpr"                           
#> [7] "is_speed"                           "modified_at"                       
#> [9] "geometry"
```

``` r
# Sample 3 random countlines and rename to A, B, C
set.seed(2025)
sampled_metadata <- metadata_sf |>
  slice_sample(n = 3) |>
  mutate(sensor = c("A", "B", "C"))
sampled_ids <- sampled_metadata$id
id_lookup <- setNames(sampled_metadata$sensor, sampled_metadata$id)

# Get counts for a week in 2024
from_time <- as.POSIXct("2024-01-01", tz = "UTC")
to_time <- as.POSIXct("2024-01-08", tz = "UTC")

counts_df <- get_countline_counts(sampled_ids, from = from_time, to = to_time) |>
  mutate(sensor = id_lookup[id])
```

Note: this will fail if the sensors don’t have speed recording enabled:

``` r
# Get speeds (function accepts vector of IDs)
speeds_df <- get_countline_speed(sampled_ids, from = from_time, to = to_time)
```

We can visualise the counts:

``` r
# Summary statistics
summary_stats <- counts_df |>
  group_by(sensor) |>
  summarise(
    observations = n(),
    total_count = sum(count, na.rm = TRUE)
  )
summary_stats
#> # A tibble: 3 × 3
#>   sensor observations total_count
#>   <chr>         <int>       <dbl>
#> 1 A               160        2848
#> 2 B               158        4513
#> 3 C               158        2033

# Plot traffic counts over time
ggplot(counts_df, aes(x = from, y = count, color = sensor)) +
  geom_line() +
  labs(
    title = "Traffic Counts (Jan 2024)",
    x = "Time",
    y = "Total Vehicles",
    color = "Sensor"
  ) +
  theme_minimal() +
  theme(legend.position = "bottom")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-summary-1.png" width="100%" />
